	The Rules of Midnight Oil
	=========================

Midnight Oil uses a standard 52-card deck (no jokers).
To begin the game the deck is shuffled, then dealt
face-up, one card at a time, into seventeen piles of
three cards each.  The last card is placed by itself
as an eighteenth pile.  These piles are also known as
"fans".

The object of the game is to move all of the cards
from the eighteen fans into four new piles, arranged
by suit, in order from Ace (low) to King (high).
These four destination piles are known as the
"foundations".  Only the top card of each fan is
available for play.

In addition to moving cards from fans to foundations,
cards can also be moved from one fan to another,
building down in suit.  In this way, submerged cards
can be freed up for play to the foundations or to
other fans.  Once a fan becomes empty, no moves can
be made to that fan.

When you have made all the moves you can, from the
fans to the foundations and from fan to fan, the
remaining cards in all the fans may be reshuffled and
re-dealt in the same manner as at the beginning of the
game (three cards to a fan).  In all, the deck may be
shuffled three times (once to begin the game, and
twice more during the game).

At some point during the game, you may draw one
submerged card from a fan and play it on any valid
foundation or fan.  It is generally better to save
this draw for as long as possible.

You can point to one of the foundations and click the
mouse button to initiate "manual-auto" mode.  This
function is, as the name inplies, a cross between
manual mode and automatic mode.  When you click on a
foundation, the fans are scanned for possible moves,
and any valid moves to that foundation will be made
automatically.
