	The Rules of Calculation
	========================

Calculation uses a standard 52-card deck (no jokers).
To begin the game the deck is shuffled, then any ace,
two, three, and four are pulled from the deck and form
the start of four foundations.  These foundations are
built up according to the following sequence,
regardless of suit or color:

            A,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,J,Q,K
            2,4,6,8,10,Q,A,3,5,7,9,J,K
            3,6,9,Q,2,5,8,J,A,4,7,10,K
            4,8,Q,3,7,J,2,6,10,A,5,9,K

Cards are turned up from the deck one at a time, and
can be played on the foundations or on any of four
wastepiles located just below the foundations.  The
top of the wastepiles are always available for play to
a foundation, but once a card is played to a
wastepile, it cannot be moved again, except to a
foundation.

The game is won by building all four foundations up to
king.  The skill involved in playing Calculation, in
addition to just keeping track of what card goes next
on each foundation, is in avoiding covering up a card
you'll need soon with a card that cannot be used for
some time, if at all.  Kings are especially
troublesome, since they cannot be moved until at least
one foundation has been fully built up.

The general strategy is to build on the wastepiles in
descending order, but the cards are seldom so kind as
to allow this to any great degree.
